What was your first crypto gig job
whatever you did? The first crypto gig
job is actually super team earn and also
why why does a customer want to access
it via bank Jupyter mobile or even a
centralized exchanges directly available
to them right
>> I need USDC in the first place versus in
a bank if I want to buy let's say Solana
bank will transfer AD and allow you to
buy with AD in your bank account
>> for example in a centralized exchange
it's very common to have like an anomous
wallet where you have one wallet which
manages all of your treasury right and
also especially important if you're
using cold wallets otherwise you'll end
up with many wallets to manage.
>> If a bank is doing this they need to
have a custody license but getting a
custody license is very simple for a
bank. It's not a factor of what the bank
wants. It's more about the insurance.
>> Hello everyone welcome to another
episode of the Monex podcast. Today we
we have Shrian the CTO of use and also
one of my very good friends and also one
of the early members of super team.
Welcome to the podcast Shien.
>> It's thanks a lot shik. Awesome. Shan,
uh, so one of the questions that we
typically start with is like you have a
very strong tech background, right? Like
I kur and then Microsoft research, then
Goldman, and then you had a startup of
your own. So like
when was the switch like why did you
decide to what pulled you into crypto?
So I I think I can take two answers. One
is super team. uh but I got into love
with crypto a little before superdeada.
This is when I was working at Goldman.
We were building liquidity provisioning
algorithms. The idea was to do liquidity
provisioning in 10 nconds.
Then Ethereum came by and then you see
Ethereum wherein you don't require
sophisticated people to do liquidity
provisioning. You have an AMM it is
automatically rebalancing. The fact that
there's a world computer wherein
automatically you can go and trade which
will run independent of thousands of
devs running it completely blew my mind.
Uh we were spending a lot of time doing
algorithms in private silos but then you
could just do it on chain. Uh that was
when the love came in. That is when I
read about the unis swap formula. That
is when I realized that you can deploy
these programs. You don't need AWS.
It'll just run out of the box. That's
how I got interested in crypto. After
that it became a problem of distributed
systems. How do you do consensus?
Baantine fault tolerance like at the
core crypto and blockchain is
distributed systems. Is trying to solve
a problem which was never solved before
Bitcoin. Uh and the cool concepts that
Satoshi introduced to solve the BFD
problem.
>> Very interesting. What was your first
crypto gig job whatever you did?
>> The first crypto gig job was actually
super team earn. Um before that I was
working on my own startup which was an
edtech startup called All Round. Uh and
I had heard of Super Team. I had seen
the podcast uh I think it was called
Super Pumped back then. Then it became
super team. The first gig was actually
building out the front end for Super
Team Earn. We were racing for I think
the Mumbai hacker house and it was cash
me Yash Pratik Dolani and we were
building this cool platform wherein
people could come and do gigs
themselves. Uh it's a fun interesting
thing that okay we are building
something for gigs. Uh before that
technically I did a small thing for Neil
wherein we were doing the Instagrams
online. Uh it was not crypto per se but
that was my proof of work wherein I
helped him build build the bot which
would automatically give Instagrams. Uh
but building out super team earn the
first layer of it how we had
attestations how people could commit all
of that was the first crypto gig that I
did.
>> Very interesting. Um I remember when we
met in Delhi uh I think you were
wrapping up your old startup and still
figuring things out. Um I'd love to know
what made you transition to fuse
finance. It also seems like a contrarian
bet. You didn't start up in India, you
started up in Dubai. Well, I guess it's
not very contrary in crypto.
>> Uh but it's a big uh challenge I guess
maybe not again in crypto. Uh but would
love to know this initiation story of
Fuse Finance. So I think fuse finance
comes from the fact that 2022 was
probably the worst in crypto for most of
us right first you get hit by Luna and
three arrows capital then when you're
recovering from Luna and Three Arrows
Capital FTX pulls off something that
completely shocked the crypto world
right I still remember that um by the
start of one week before FTX happened
and that entire week I was in shock like
this is the first time I believe that
someone is good and they were not. So
SPF completely blew my mind. Um so the
bet for fuse finance comes mostly from
in 2022 we realize that u defi is great
but it's never go going to become
mainstream like the number of defi users
will always be these frontier people who
want to play around with money but if
you really want crypto and the power
that it had uh to be used by everyone in
the world you need to do something with
regulated financial institutions so in
that sense UAE was a way ahead because
they had regulatory regime teams over
there. They had VA, they had uh
different organizations which are coming
up with guard rails so that you can
actually form a regulated entity and
then service banks. Uh the GTM was also
simple. If you service banks and if you
service these fintex directly, they will
be able to offer these to their
consumers maybe in a way wherein the
consumers don't know they're using
crypto. And today that is happening with
like stable coins all across the world.
Uh so that was a core bet that we'll get
a regulatory license which will allow us
to service a bigger base and once that
bigger base comes into crypto they could
possibly on ramp themselves to DeFi but
we wanted the crypto rails to completely
revolutionize banking and I think in
2025 it has happened right now because
stable coin banking is a reality
everyone is using stable coins that
completely changes what fintech is
earlier fintech was a layer on top of
like banking infrastructure now fintech
can be built on top of crypto and banks
can start using like the relationship
between banks and fintex is completely
flipped. Now
>> you mentioned uh GTM was getting a v
license. Um how difficult is it or I
guess was it to get a v license back
then? Uh what does one need if you know
they want to start a similar
institution? So number one getting a
regulatory license is a capital
constraint problem right? So one you
have to pay the supervision fees uh
supervision fees every year. You have to
have like upfront capital that you need
to give. You need to have like the right
people in place compliance legal
operations uh on boarding risk to
actually get the license. So it's not a
simple task. When we started we started
in November of 2022. We did not have our
license for at least 18 months. So we
were building the entire stack. I think
we got our license in 2023. Yeah.
Actually it took us one year. uh we
still one of the faster companies that
got our license. We never went
operational before last year. So Jan 1st
2024 is when we went operational. For
the first 13 14 months of our existence,
we were building in silo applying for
the license that requires us to fill in
lot of documentation. That is not
something that I would ask a typical
startup to do. Uh it takes a lot of time
and VA was also still new when we
applied. Now V is an established
institution and there are hundreds of
thousands of companies applying
including like the Bits of the world,
the Binance of the world. So it's become
more difficult. So now there's a big
queue for people to apply. Uh so one you
need the capital, you need more than the
technical knowhow to get a licensing.
You need the right kind of corporate
structure, legal officers, compliance
officers and money to actually get it
done. But once it's done, it allows you
a fair bit of first moves advantage
because no one else can service the same
customers that you get. the core bet was
that you know stable coins and crypto
will pull banking into the in into a
newer dimension. So I'm curious to you
know learn hear from you how banks act
you know banks and older financial
institution actually received your ideas
or received your offerings and you had
to tell them hey you know what this is
like
this new new thing called stable coins.
So this was back in 2022 and 2023 right
way before the genius act. So curious to
hear about what was their reaction like
and how did they
>> the first few banks said that uh it's
not going to happen right so it was not
like everyone just opened the doors and
like oh come on let's do crypto um we
had to do a lot of convincing for people
to start accepting uh what we're doing
right so it took us like the first bank
went live last year in November so it
took us 2 years to convince one bank and
this is a digital only bank VO is a bank
which is live right know they took the
deep dive that hey we will enable crypto
and now uh we have many more banks rack
rag bank went live last month uh they
went live with bit panda um other banks
through it app live has gone live uh
more banks are going to go live we have
five or six banks lined up who will go
live in the next 6 months uh so now the
tide has shifted and people have
realized that crypto is something they
should adopt but this is more of buy
sell hold crypto uh we still seeing
adoption in the area of using stable
coins for more products like using
stable coin for payments for which the
licensing regime has now come in uh
using stable coins for remittance which
I think a lot of fintexs are now doing
um in different corridors across the
world or just using stable coins to top
up balances right that's a big use case
right now that happens with grab in
Singapore wherein you can use stable
coins to top up balances it's just a
much better mechanism than swift and in
terms of if you think about what what it
entails for consumers. A lot of
consumers want uh do not want to go
through swift. It takes 3 or 5 days.
Sometimes it takes weeks. The money
doesn't land you have to follow up.
There is no transparency like stable
coin transfer any kind of crypto
transfer is completely transparent like
you know when it got transferred who got
it when they did when did they get it
you can actually do AML KYC checks. So
that fundamental shift has now happened.
Banks are looking at different ways to
do it. uh they're looking at tokenized
deposit, they're looking at tokenized
bonds, how do they drive efficiency
using like the stable coins.
>> So when VO or any of these banks offer
crypto services, right? What exactly are
they uh offering to their customers and
also why why does a customer want to
access it via bank versus you know when
uh something like Jupiter mobile or even
a centralized exchange is directly
available to them, right? So I'm curious
how this consideration set for a
customer.
>> So I think the biggest problem is
on-ramp, right? So if I have to buy
anything on Jupiter mobile, I need USDC
in the first place versus in a bank if I
want to buy Solana, then I can
immediately the bank will transfer AED
and allow you to buy with AED in your
bank account. The offramping problem is
a big problem in crypto which completely
gets solved with banks. So the flow is
so smooth that I go on the app I have
let's say 10,000 dirhams I want to buy
Solana worth 100s I can immediately buy
it there is no friction part and that is
two with centralized exchanges also you
need to get the USDC first or you need
to transfer through swift so you've gone
back in circles like to actually get the
money in you need swift again which is a
problem or you need a or you need fed
wire all of these are very slow
mechanisms so banks will in the future
after the genius act I banks will just
do one click convert to the bank stable
coin. So what will happen is let's say I
have a chase account in chase I have USD
in one click I'll get USD that can then
be transferred to Jupiter and then the
flow is complete but as of today the
flow is very broken so you need a bank
in between I think banks become more
powerful with stable coins they will
have Chase USD that will go you'll have
to have some kind of clearing mechanism
which converts all kinds of USD into
like one USDC or one USDT or whatever
you want but this mechanism then will
solve the major problem in crypto as of
today which is on ramp and off ramp.
>> How does a bank look at it from a bank's
perspective? Is this like a new product
offering for them? Just like you know
how if you go to HDFC or ICIC you get a
DMAT account or you know in the US you
get a brokerage account. So it's are
they looking at it as part of their
entire wealth management portfolio? Is
that is is that where they are coming
from? So they have two different use
cases of this right for the wealth
management they are more looking into
bitcoin like offering these frontier
assets which are not accessible to
investors. Uh so these are HNI people
who are qualified investors. So they
will sell them Solana, Bitcoin, ETH
whatever is there. On the other side is
the normal banking like the day-to-day
banking. There you will have stable
coins which is for payment means just
for like medium of exchange. Uh so there
are two different segments and different
segments of the banks are looking at
differently. People are looking at
people already for example a lot of
cryptonative folks have Solana. So banks
want to offer loans against Solana for
them. They're looking at hey we get
these onchain assets and we want to
underwrite loans. Uh they're looking at
other things like can we have clearing
houses on chain? Can we trade different
kinds of assets on chain? Uh can we take
the deposits which are already there?
For example, I might have some deposits
on HDFC. Can I get it converted to
tokenized deposits and use that for
something else? Uh that these are the
use cases banks are interested in. All
verticals are covered. It is insurance.
So people want to ensure your bitcoin,
it is investing, uh it is payments, it
is insurance. So all different verticals
are being done right now.
>> For example, if I deposit BTC or Solana
into a bank into a bank account. So do I
still have the custody of my assets or I
have given the custody to the bank. So
how do they you've given the custody to
the bank. So you give up self custody
over here uh for extra guarantees. That
is the like essentially that is a
dilemma right. So do you want to give up
the custody of assets or not? I think in
the future banks will allow you to
withdraw to your own custody. But a lot
of the banks are now developing their
own custody stack. It's just like
custodying money, right? They've always
been custodian of your assets. You give
them cash and you get a digital
representation. Now they're going to
build their own custody stack wherein
they will be custoing your Bitcoin, your
Solana. Then they will also give you
some staking rewards. So the good thing
is banks are also looking into staking
and they want to give the staking
rewards back. They'll probably charge a
small commission on top, but they're
open to all of these mechanisms. They're
also open to taking the USDC that you
have, deploying it in DeFi and giving
you a cut back. Um so banks have very
like at least in the UAE all banks have
a head of digital assets and they are
very forwardthinking folks. They are
looking at what all needs to be done
with what all is evolving the crypto
space. what all features can we give but
also in a safe way because I think a lot
of the retail customers they want to be
very careful before introducing anything
to them which might cause them losing
the principle
>> that is probably much more important
right in the sense that the it's so
especially when you're dealing with
newer protocols or you know just cryp
even customing crypto in general all you
need is like one simple mistake so that
>> so that shows up either as regulatory
your complaints cost or you you solve it
with technology, right? So
I'm curious to uh hear more about how
you actually think about think about
this. Is custody part of your uh product
offering or is it something that banks
are taking on themselves?
>> So it's I think it's both. Uh banks are
also taking out themselves. U mostly
banks want to do custody themselves
because that's their forte. They have
teams which are taking care of cold
custody. They employ qualified
custodians. What banks end up doing over
here is they will manage like we'll
probably have some hot custody but at
the end of the day the cold custody will
lie with the bank so that all the funds
are stored with them. Uh there are a lot
of qualified custodians in the world
which will give you insurance provided
it's completely cold. Uh cold custody is
an interesting topic because it's
completely secured no online activation.
We use what we do in these particular
cases is we run the RPC nodes and we get
the balances by quering the blockchain
addresses. Uh so we don't need an API
integration. That's an architectural
decision that you take because once you
have an API integration that's another
vector that you want to avoid in
security. So different banks have their
own different uh cold custody stack. We
just tend to fetch the balances using
the blockchain uh and then we just
report it on onto the bank. uh
especially in a lot of locations custody
is becoming mandatory in the region that
they are like we are talking to Turkish
banks they are hosting their own custody
UAE banks are now hosting their custody
I'm pretty sure that's going to happen
with us as well a lot of these custody
providers cold custodians will be
acquired with banks who will then become
the primary custodians of crypto
>> I actually would love to double pick on
their custody mod their accounting model
right so for example in a centralized
exchange it's very common to have like a
anomous wallet where you have one wallet
which manages all of your treasury,
right? And also especially important if
you're using cold wallets otherwise
you're going you'll end up with many
wallets to manage. So how does a bank
typically does it? So is it like an
omnibus wallet? If it is an omnibus
wallet, how do how are they thinking
about things like proof, you know,
actually having the reserves?
Because from a centralized exchange to
bank, they operate in very different
levels of regulations, right?
>> Yes. So, um again, if a bank is doing
this, they need to have a custody
license. But getting a custody license
is very simple for a bank because
they're already doing with uh fiat
money. Now usually it's not a factor of
omnibus in terms of what the bank wants.
It's more about the insurance right. So
you split up a wallet into multiple
pieces because it's easier to insure
individual uh individual cold wallet.
Most of the insurance providers will not
provide insurance more than 100 million.
So the maximum asset you'll have is the
quantum of insurance that you have. So
they will insure multiple different
wallets each for like 50 million. So
that is a strategy that you do only
depending on the insurance. So it's not
mandated by what I want. It's mandated
by how much insurance coverage I'll get.
Uh it's a very different consideration
for banks, right? So it's not a
technical challenge. It's how do we make
sure that accidentally one of these
wallets get hacked, we can still recover
all of the funds.
>> Where does Fuse Finance come into the
picture here? Like what tech are you
building? If we can dive a little deeper
into this um
>> yes
>> for banks. So uh what we've done is we
built like an API stack which offers a
lot of these features that banks would
want right so let's say the use case of
buying selling old crypto uh we embed
directly into the banking app and you
can buy or sell crypto using that uh
what our stack does is it exposes a
unified API it has an account structure
anyone can create an account create a
user they have to give some KYC
documents according to the regulation
and then once the account is ready uh
you can start trading for that account
Um we abstract all of the blockchain
components. So we have an open loop just
like Privy does wherein you can use Fuse
Finance APIs to orchestrate your own
wallets and you can then buy crypto,
sell crypto on ramp, off-ramp all
automated fashion. So we have
connectivity with different banking
providers. So you can provision a bank
account wherein you can transfer the
funds. Once the funds are hit, you get a
web hook. Uh from the web hook, then you
know that okay, I have now 10,000
dirhams. You can start trading on it. Um
so in a nutshell we provide this entire
API stack which looks like a simple web
to AP rest API to manage all of your
crypto. Uh it the API is so simple that
you can also trade fiat or you can trade
stocks on it. Uh it's in an exchange API
you usually have convert BTC to USDT. In
an API you'll have convert BTC to USD or
BTC to AD. Uh we've built it on AWS. So
I think the engineering that went into
this is very interesting on we've
abstracted out different components. We
have one whole custody service which can
connect to the multiple custodians that
we have. We have to support multiple
custodians because we have to support
the bank custody providers also. So if a
bank has a hard custody wallet, we need
to abstract it out and integrate with
our custody provider. Uh we built a
completely event based mechanism. Uh
it's a popsup mechanism that scales
really well. That was also what we had
at Goldman. So everything is an event.
You have API servers distributed across
multiple availability zones. Uh so that
if one of them goes down, you can always
have another come up. BCP is a term
which is very common with banking. So
they need to make sure that you're
always up. You need to have a 99.99%
uptime. So we built it on multiple ACS.
Um what ends up happening is API server
is the front end when it gets a request
converts it to an event message
publishes it to the event bus then the
multiple consumers will consume the
message and act on it. Uh we have
different consumers we have for orders
we have different servers for payments
we have for notification audit. So we
built a big u big cluster of services
microservices which are doing it. We've
all done it on a monor repo though. So
it's not it's not like a true
microservices. It's like a monorreo
having a popsub consumer architecture. I
think that that scales really well.
>> You're the ones who are providing the
swaps to the bank. So where do you
source liquidity from?
>> Once you get an API server message, it's
an order request. It goes to a consumer
which is an order service
>> that has something we call the smart
order route
>> that will go and ser get liquidity from
multiple different venues. So we work
with regulated uh liquidity providers be
the falcon connects, winter mute, B2C2
all of these major liquidity providers
across the world. We source liquidity
whoever gives the best price. One of the
regulatory constraints that we have is
best execution. So we have to make sure
that the price that we get is the best
in the market provided there are
constraints and slippage. So we do not
take that decision actively. Whoever
gives us the best code depending upon
risk limits we source it from there. Uh
there's no risk over here. So first we
confirm that the order has been executed
by the liquidity provider and then we
give it back.
>> So interesting. So this looks this
sounds very close to an exchange um only
um you're serving it in a B2B fashion.
Uh when you say you source liquidity u
from you know winter mute or or any of
these market makers um does that mean
you get an can users only place market
orders is I guess my question or is this
like a pure trading platform?
>> So uh right now we support market
orders. We are now opening up limit
orders as well. uh that is also based on
a similar model wherein you place it on
an order book. Uh from the order book
the liquidity is sourced from multiple
different liquidity venues and then the
order gets ex uh executed or it might
get executed between the orders on our
platform itself. But right now it's only
market orders. So limit order is
experimental. We're trying to figure out
how to best support it. The other order
we support is an OTC order. It's called
a RFQ order wherein you can place an
order and ask for let's say a big chunk.
uh this is what mostly HNIs and private
uh wealth offices end up using.
>> I guess the other thing here is uh
deposit and withdrawal stack right um
whenever uh your users can probably
withdraw to the blockchain and deposit
from the blockchain. Is that true?
>> Not for the banking integration right
now. That's usually closed loop. Uh it
will eventually become open loop
provided the banks want to do it. We
allow it but the banks have a risk
tolerance and slowly and steadily
they'll start opening it up.
>> It's very close to what happens in India
which is you can convert fiat to crypto
crypto. Yes. Yes. But we also have an
OTC test wherein you can uh withdraw
crypto freely.
>> Would love to know the engineering
principles. How do you hire? What kind
of people do you look for? The tech
stack things like these.
>> Uh so the tech stack is uh for better or
worse. The text right now is touchcript.
Uh it scales really well. Like I think
people think that you can't have really
fast services. Our P99 latencies is like
30 mconds. Uh which you can get on
Typescript if you architect it really
well. Now we are adding because it's a
pubsub based architecture. We want to
have some of the consumers written in
Golang or Rust or whatever is required.
Golang is the first one we want to do
because it seems to be cool. U like I
don't really care about the language I
have written in Python, C++, JavaScript,
whatever solves the purpose at the end
of the day is the language that you have
to use. Uh I think we have a very simple
hiring process. We actually hired
someone in 48 hours last week. Um after
I had a very bad incident when someone
didn't join. Uh I I was going to say
that one guy called Adita said that he's
not going to join. We got another Adita
in like 48 hours and we I think we got
the better Adita here in like the last
48 hours. Um so we have five rounds. Uh
the first round is a small chat with me.
That small chat is just 15 minutes and I
just want to test if that person is a
good fit for the company or not. In that
I'm looking for like team like culture
fit. Is he is like a vibe check more or
less. I want to see if people have the
hustle. they want to work hard. I don't
really care where you're from. As long
as you have a innate thirst to actually
learn and you have that hunger to learn,
that's all that I really care about,
right? You want to know that if this
person joins the team, everyone will be
better off or not. Uh we don't like to
hire like I think a brilliant jerks, we
like to hire people who are consistent
and hardworking. I don't want people who
will be aspos to anyone else in the
team. Uh we don't have anyone like that.
I think the two principles that I hire
for is you need to be like very
independent. Uh it's a very flat
hierarchy. There is no micromanagement.
You should not block people. So you
should be someone who actually goes out
and helps people rather than blocking
them. Uh we try to be have a very
collaborative approach to programming
over here because we are remote first
team. Uh we don't have in in office. So
we want people who actually help each
other out. Uh the f after that we have
two or three interviews with the
different engineering teams. We focus
more on real world development skills.
So what kind of production quality code
you've written? What is your previous
experiences? How to do system design.
DSA is not usually covered. We will ask
them to write some piece of code which
is production ready, some data structure
or algorithm which is more what you'll
write in a real world environment rather
than an abstract environment of like
dynamic programming. Uh so it's more
realistic that way. If someone actually
we think is good but fails an interview,
we ask them to do it again in a few
weeks. uh if we think that someone is
like we try to give multiple
opportunities to people who might just
come under stress because people try to
think interview as a stressful
environment. It is okay for us for
people to retry. Uh we do not say that
hey once you fail you cannot retry for
fuse. Uh so that's a different approach
that we have. Then one of my co-founders
talks to the engineer if they're like
senior level and if everything goes well
we just or hire them. Doesn't take more
than two to three weeks to actually
close the process. We've done it much
quicker like we did for 48 hours last
week.
>> That's amazing. U are you still hiring?
We I think a few folks could be a good
fit.
>> How big is the team right now? I also
see you guys are post series B now,
right?
>> So we are post series A. Uh I don't know
what it means. You raised enough. I
don't know the capital number is very
weird but uh the total team is 75
people. Uh the engineering team now is
16 people going to 20 which is far
bigger than I anticipated it to be. like
I want I prefer small teams but we have
so many things to solve that we went
ahead we still hiring for people and I
think I like to talk to people and if
they are good we don't hire from a
scarcity mindset so we don't really hire
people that hey like everything is going
bad we need to hire people we try to
talk to people and figure out that if
they are good we find a position in the
team I think that works better wherever
I've hired from a mindset that hey we
need to hire someone right now it's
always been a bad hire so We are open to
hiring people. If someone is like
someone is smart who can pick up things
work independently we are more than
happy to figure out how they can work
with fuse.
>> Are you guys supports yet or you know
margin trading or is that on the charts?
>> So those are things that we want to do
but that requires a different license.
Uh so the interesting thing about the
domain we are in is if you want to do
anything derivatives you need a
different license and the capital
requirement for license is very
different. So in this particular case in
margins etc you need a different kind of
envir like capital requirement to
actually do it. The biggest challenge
that we have is our balance sheet uh
like how much can you actually do with a
limited amount of balance sheet. Uh this
is solved if you become a big player
like Galaxy Digital who's one of our
investors as well or let's say a Binance
which has like billions of dollars in
balance sheet. We are adding more order
types. We are adding more banking
partners. We are adding more custodians.
Uh so we doing all of these uh with a
small team right now but there's a lot
of things that we want to build out.
>> It seems like you're operating in a very
tightly regulated space. Every not just
your one your engineering your entire
architecture your all the systems that
you build need to adhere to a certain
compliance standard. Not only that but
any new priority decisions or even a
future that you need to consider has to
go via the regulator right so that means
a completely different process so how do
you how do you I I'm curious how you
think through technical decisions and
also how you think about product
decisions given that you are operating
in a very highly constrained environment
regulator wise
>> a lot of the principles have been set
into the architecture right um because
it's an event- based mechanism. Every
event is audited automatically. Uh we do
not allow roll backs. So in the sense
that once you do an order, it is
unlikely that the order can be
cancelled. You'll have to trade away.
Like we built the system such that it
kind of it's fat fingerproof that if you
do a mistake, it should not like like
you need multiple checks to make sure
that everything is right. Um and I'm not
like we spoke about deposit and
withdrawals. It's not just a dep a
deposit and withdrawal has multiple
layers to it. So when you withdraw a
fund when you are in a regulated
environment you have to check that the
final wallet destination has to be
screened. So we screen whether this is
an address which has been used by any
illicit activities. Has it used it used
by any hacker collective? If it has we
do not process the withdrawal. So that
is called KY know your transaction. So
we do address cleaning and KY using
elliptic chainsis. These are the
multiple tools you can after that uh
people don't know that every time you do
a transfer you have to do something
called a travel rule uh wherein you
actually encode the information about
who encrypt the information about who
the sender and receiver is and you match
that information. So let's say if you
deposit into the fuse platform uh we get
a deposit you say that it has come from
arkat but it's actually come from so we
will match that information from the
sender and make sure that it is actually
correct information. So all of these
things have to be built into the system.
Fortunately, we are very API and
automation driven. So we try to automate
as much as possible. We've automated all
of these checks. Uh so we don't want to
have like manual like we're a small team
handling a lot of these things because
we've automated as many things as
possible. Uh then there are other things
like in terms of just the architecture
we have multiple side cars. Uh we
partnered with players like exop
uh we sell for a lot of things. So we
selfose graphana, we self host
telemetry, we self host appsmith,
metabase, all of these tools are
self-hosted. We use our own VPN
solution. We use tail scale uh to
self-host all of this. So we don't shy
away from doing a lot of the heavy
lifting in dev sec ops to make sure that
our end to end pipeline is really
secure. Like one of the things that I
love doing, I still spend 30 to 40% of
my time coding. uh I do most of the
releases with the with everyone look at
whatever the code changes are because I
I think the joy of automating writing
code is still there uh people will say
that AI will come in write a lot of code
but that just makes it much more fun
right you don't write the smaller bits
of code you think about the larger
architecture pieces on how to
orchestrate everything together um being
in a regulated environment is not like
yes you have the reporting requirements
but if you use the right architecture if
you have all of these tools in place and
you build with the building blocks in
place to actually adhere to compliance,
it becomes much more simpler.
>> What does your typical release cycle
look like, right?
>> We release three or five times a day. Uh
like it's all CI/CD.
>> Uh and I think that is one of the
interesting things that we built. We use
ECS right now. Uh the problem with ECS
is coordinating between different
services and ECS is hard. Uh it does not
come out of the box. They don't support
blue green deployment out of the box. Uh
so we've built an architecture on top
which does that like because the event
based like it's an event based popsup
mechanism what we do is um we have a
coordinated we have a coordinator as
soon as the coordinator is getting
restarted it blocks all the other
consumers um and all the other consumers
will only consume the existing message
and then go on a stop they will only
start consuming message when they
restart in the next version so we've
built a blue green and a rolling
deployment mechanism on top of ECM
to do multiple deployments in a day
without losing messages. Um, and we
wanted to do multiple deployments in a
day because there's this book called the
Phoenix Project uh which I'm inspired a
lot by over there. The idea is as soon
as you stop deploying daily
automatically deployments become hard
because you have to coordinate
everything for one entire week or entire
month. Instead, if you deploy daily and
multiple times, the release failures go
down. Uh, so we try to deploy as many
times as possible. This is one of the
biggest change that had to be done to my
engineering team. Uh earlier they were
hesitant and now all of them are like
yeah let's just deploy. So that change
of attitude that you can deploy every
day that gives you a lot of freedom.
That also gives you the freedom that if
something breaks you can roll back. Uh
usually things don't break because we
have multiple E2A integration tests
which run on the four different
environments. We have we have a
development staging pre-pro and prod
environment. So every environment has
E2E tests which run throughout the day.
As soon as something fails, you know
that something has failed. But you have
also the ability to immediately deploy
anything very quickly. Uh again, our
automation helps. We have GitHub
actions. We use really fast GitHub
action runners. We have coverage which
is more than 99% for most of the the
things. Most companies will not focus on
unit test coverage. I focus a lot
because that set it's the broken window
theory, right? Once you have 60%
coverage, no one wants 90%. But once you
have 99% going down is always going to
be painful. Uh so that works really
well. It is a little pedantic. Uh a lot
of people hate me for just pushing the
coverage up but in the long term it
works really well
>> especially in a startup you want to kind
of move fast and break things which it's
one of those things that you just can't
afford to do because of the nature of
the industry. Right. So
>> but you can break in dev staging and
pre-pro right if you catch it early. you
can just break as much things as
possible in development. Like if you
have pipelines, so in in our case, a
developer makes a change, pushes it into
development. Uh if everything is good,
it goes to stating, you have three
layers which will actually automatically
catch any error. Uh so even before
production, there are multiple points in
which you know if this is breaking, you
will not release it. Then finally, when
a release happens to production, you
manually review the code again. So this
is the third time you're reviewing. you
actually do a risk impact assessment
whether there is any critical component
which is getting affected or not.
Obviously you have different SLAs's uh
let's say in our particular case we have
internal tools if you deploy something
in an internal tool breaks that's okay
right you can fix it later or you can
have something that patches it but if a
core use case for a bang breaks that's
not okay so we try to also evaluate what
is the risk of a release uh we are
always backwards compatible like we try
to make sure that we never do a breaking
change like that is one of the things
that we keep on talking about how to
make sure that we will not break and
that requires two three releases right
first release is backwards compatible
making sure everything gets migrated and
then deploying the next release wherein
everything is clean. Uh it's a process
it's a acumen that most engineers
develop but once you develop it it's
just good engineering. Uh people think
that writing code is just writing code
but there's a lot that goes into writing
code at production scale which is going
to handle hundreds of thousands of
millions of dollars. Uh it's an
interesting technical problem. I think
the one thing that I'm really proud of
is the way we do releases right now. Uh
it's a really good mechanism and it took
us a while to come to the position that
we are right now. But earlier we were a
little afraid because there are these
corner cases. Now most of the corner
cases are handmade.
>> It's interesting. You also mentioned you
guys are a you it's a monolith, right?
Sorry, not a monolith but a monor repo.
So,
>> so how do you maintain like you know it
must take like a tremendous amount of
discipline to make sure must take a
tremendous amount of discipline to make
sure nothing goes wrong especially with
the monor repo right these don't break
in a monor repo because when you have
type checking so you know that one layer
is already done um you have services
which if you change one part of the code
you immediately know the contract is
broken on another part If you have
microservices and because we have a
consumer architecture and whenever you
do this event based mechanism you don't
send messages on the queue you send ids
on the queue. So everything is postgress
is still our ultimate source of truth.
You have a message that this has
processed. You check the ID. You go to
the DB and now you know what the newest
state is. Then you process it. Um I
think once you have microservices, you
might end up deploying a micros service
which changed the API contract and other
microser might not have an updated
contract and things might break. If you
have a monorreo with a consumer popsub
mechanism and you know that there's only
one source of information and everything
else is a sync you can coordinate much
better. It's a much better programming
model in my mind because if one of the
contracts changes in one part of the
code the other part will start doing a
type check error. Uh we also make sure
that there are no any there are no
unknowns it is like strictly typed. So
you know that something breaks you
immediately get to fix it. Second thing
that happens in this particular contract
is because only ids are going you know
what the state machine is. Um and
because we are backwards compatible um I
think the other thing that comes into
play is if you deploy too many times
rather than deploying once a week
automatically your change quantum is
very small. So whenever something goes
in even though we have hundreds of
thousands of lines of code at max you're
touching five or six files. So if five
or six files are being affected, you
know what can go wrong. Like you can
really plan what is going wrong. If 100
files are being affected, no one knows
what's going to go wrong in the system.
So it's much more predictable if the
quantum of changes is smaller.
So I'm a big believer of even deploying
a single file. Like if there's a small
file change, you can just deploy it.
Deploy hundreds of times of a day. Uh we
don't do that 100 times because like ECS
is slow. So it takes like 20 minutes to
do a deployment which is the only
constraint factor that we have right
now. We have as parallel as possible but
still it takes some time.
>> Now I understand like the typescript and
the monor repo explains why your build
you you had tweeted about your build
time being like taking 20 minutes on
GitHub actions.
>> Now I understand that was the case.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, so the thing is we use
just so we use just on rust. So we do
SWC. The problem is we have 5,000 test
cases. uh across like hundreds of files
and over 3 years it started taking a lot
of time but now I've just put M4 Max so
I'm like just put hardware to the
problem why should I care about it
that's the Solana philosophy right
better hardware is just the solution to
a lot of scaling problems it's now down
to 2 minutes again which is okay
>> thank you so much for joining us it was
fantastic having you
>> thanks a bar shake.